# Web Browser

A web browser is a software application that allows users to access and view websites and webpages on the Internet. It acts as an intermediary between the user and the web server, enabling the retrieval and rendering of web content.

## How does it work?

<ol>
    <li>The user enters the URL(Uniform Resource Locator) link of the page in the browser's adcress bar.</li>
    <li>Then a HTTP Responce is sent to the Web Server. The Web server is the Intermediate application between the Database and Client.</li>
    <li>In the HTTP there is header and body. In the header the status codes and some other protocols are existed.</li>
    <li>When the Web server recieves Client Request it tries to identify adrress in the request provided by the client and search in the database using DNS.</li>
    <li>DNS stands for Domain Name System. It is a decentralized system that translates domain names (e.g., example.com) into IP addresses (e.g., 192.0.2.1) that computers use to communicate over the Internet. In simpler terms, DNS is like a phonebook for the Internet, mapping human-readable domain names to machine-readable IP addresses.</li>
    <li>If the link is valid and found then it carries request to the database. Then processes the request, retrieves the requested resource (e.g., an HTML document), and generates an HTTP response containing the requested content along with status codes, headers, and cookies.</li>
    <li>The Web Server sends back the resources to the client which is Web Browser. First of all the HTML files are loaded and then the CSS Files and lastly Javascript files.</li>
</ol>
